assalamualaikum warahmatullahi
wabarakatu and welcome to the third
podcast here with a lot of Manhattan how
are you is dead who's been in the UAE
research and education is doing there
and marshal life in instructor for very
long time is known online before we get
started
this is just a good place to start with
the podcast I mean you've been involved
in many kind of educational programs
teaching and learning for some years how
would you advise a beginner student of
knowledge did you die hard I mean the
whole Hum Dil Hassan what's the net will
Jamil or I should do a yahoodi' shitty
killer why should you and I say then I
want to be and i'm mohammed salameh re
he were early he was Harvey with Derby
arena learning in a young Medina mother
the path to knowledge is a very deep and
the scholars they say it's battler Sahil
Allahu it's an ocean that doesn't have a
shore so you're going to spend the rest
of your life learning once you take this
path you will never feel like you've
learned enough rather the more you learn
the more it becomes clear to you that
you don't know and every time you read
the Quran you remember the ayah or folk
will be there in Manali that every
knowledge that you may have accumulated
and gathered Allahu Allah
is more knowledgeable than you and knows
more when the scholars define a rhythm
they say that reading is in the Rock
will show you a drama who re in rock and
jazz EEMA
it is to know something as it is with
certainty so is to perceive something as
it is with certainty so the knowledge
that really a person should give a lot
of time to is a real monk or annual
Sunnah an e-learning the speech of Allah
who subhana wa ta'ala and the tradition
of the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa
sallam ah I mean those are the two which
our salvation and our prosperity is
connected to Allah
Hana wa'ta'ala he says in the head of
Khurana here nearly lady here up one
more you Bushiroad mean and latina yeah
I'm a-gonna sorry Hardwick
a la semana each other he says in had an
ASD ility here aqua well you best she
don't wear Bashir al mumineen alladhina
amanu no sorry hockey and neuron Kabira
final Edina liability I didn't allahumma
Devin other man Alima
so this aura on guides to the best of
affairs it saves you from many
destruction and many pain and it also
guides you when mothers feel misguided
and when people are in darkness is if
you have this Quran you feel joy but I
delicately mama shot to me he says and
he's captured with Emanuel what return
if your karate Saba he says that what I
do for in about do for Hubble of life in
Akita boohoo Vijaya he'd be similarly
damaja billah al Aug Dayton the Adamu
Ali allergy demo villa re all marble
karma mr. Liu who cut you geology marie
hangemuhl machina
well more tapa a man-eater can imagine
like him until he says in the key table
he also crucial fear in Havana in well
hidden motive Abdullah
a huge Ellison Lajamanu hadiza who with
her dad was defeated a mullah -
photography lumati min al-kibriya Elka
who sang with Helena so the Quran I say
that it's the best thing a person gets
tried to focuses on reads Ponder's on
and also the sunnah of the prophet
alayhi salatu salam no resources books
would you recommend further so if
someone wants to get started now in the
city of knowledge they want to start
like reading the Quran being able to
read being able to understand that being
able to kind of equate themselves with
the soul of the hadith
what kind of program would you I mean
like yourself if you had someone a
student of yours what kind of program
would you give for them
the Quran in terms of learning it
divides it in divided into two in terms
of learning its growth its pronunciation
and articulation and also learning in
terms of its meaning so I would
encourage the person to read books like
photo op file in order to perfect that a
tweet and until in terms of the meaning
go to like tertiary McAteer to 0 del la
these clubs in terms of Tessier it gives
a person understanding as for the hadith
of the Prophet the habits are divided
also into two a hadith or a cam like
under to document bloom Alam and also
koutou which are Johanna like the other
Saudi hain and Lulu and margin FEMA
traffic re shahad and these two in the
hadith definitely definitely better to
benefit the student knowledge long have
you been doing any particular research
now I know you in the UAE now and you're
engaged in a lot of research extra
degrees so what can we do and right now
there's a lot of sciences I always open
up when it comes to researches I look
into our research if you're in this side
of the world generally you look into
things related to Islamic finance and
things like that but there was a
research that was ongoing for me or for
a while now which is a lumen Quran and
normal Quran of course is a big science
it's you're talking about tej weed
you're talking about anyone was Bob Dole
Quran and I they're talking about
inverter art and so I've been looking
specifically at Animal Care art a bit
more and try to have a good
understanding regarding it now
interesting because the second podcast
I've done which is the last one we
actually had a conversation about about
that and some of you know Western
academics are actually again involved in
Quran if you like but from the
Orientalism we called an outsider's
perspective and I mean the standard
discussions about often cannot and are
trickling down to us naked email I'm not
saying that or an studies are so
saturated as is something which people
have side to talk about are you aware of
some of the kind of Western academic
works and so in terms of when it comes
to studying at science the the path
which is arepa to musalla the correct
way to do things
and I always encourage students of
knowledge to do is first of all learn
what is for you before you think about
observing what is against you because a
lot of harm comes from that you start
gaining doubts speculations so equip
yourself for what is I heard you for you
rather than first looking at what is
against you so alhamdulillah
a great portion of of my research I've
been looking at the kalaam of the ulema
of al-islam what they've said grounding
myself with their understanding and
their writings and alhamdulillah then I
stepped forward in looking at the shoe
who had the doubts and the word sugar if
you look at in Arabic it actually means
to make something look like something so
it's basically making the truth
look so the falsehood look like the
truth it's actually not true but it's
you know you're trying to make it look
like it's the it's the truth so
alhamdulillah
whether we Orientalist or whether it be
people claim to be muslims their works
and what they've said but what I really
want to say inshallah is the research
that you know a true sincere Muslim will
always come back to is to know that the
Quran is minimally life this poor honest
from Allah subhana WA Ta'ala
and the mustard the source in which the
Quran comes from is Allah who spanner
with Allah Allah Allah Allah says in the
Quran in oullette indeed or bill I mean
Nadella be he wrote I mean and I can't
be can eat a food I mean and Irina Billy
Cernan Arabiya mabini Allah mentions
that the Quran has been sent down from
Allah who subhana wa ta'ala and it was
sent down to the Prophet Allah Allah
cinema through Gabriel also Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala he says to the Prophet
or my own support and in our in Hua
Allah was her you knew her we do the
appeal is the one who taught him so the
Quran came to the prophet sallallaahu in
cinema through the prophets or through G
bill so the argument from Allah Azza WA
Jalla to the prophet through jbeil also
Allah subhana WA Ta'ala he says were in
Nutella - economy Lagoon hockey mineral
in the Dysport and Muhammad it has been
given to given to you from the wise the
most knowledgeable one and he's from
allahu subhanahu China and the the
doubts that have been open regarding the
Quran are not new like even at the time
of the Prophet Elias and people try to
speak about the Quran and say things
about it
they said about Alamo in the homeo Aluna
in the Rio a limo bus shop and it is
Commons are teaching you it they said
that to him also
they said to him muhammad sallallahu
alayhi wa sallam when he read the Quran
on them either to telling him to not be
enacting : lady in Allah or to Allah car
an activity has opened Alou all my Acuna
leandroop modena home until NFC in a
tabular in la mujer a in a half an hour
say traviata a human are they cool
allahu allah allahumma la can be forged
allah bestow human Cubberley he a fella
started on this ayah they said to the
prophet sallallaahu assalamu you and you
know it and he said to them so Allah are
you a cinema that the changing of the
Quran is is not something I can do you
know I can't change it from my own self
like this is again teaching us that the
Quran is Allah your Rabbani and it's a
revelation
and Allah Azza WA Jalla well in Arica
when the Quran first came down an
ability muhammad sallah allahu cinema as
I derive my best mentioned in sahih
bukhari that he he Sun Alliance element
he used to receive from it when he beam
would come to him and he would listen to
him
you're a determinate NZD should that and
he would find hardship from it because
the Prophet solid cinema wanted to
memorize quickly and so he would try it
would move his lips in order to memorize
and he was commanded not to have it be
Healy sana colita Adela be in Noreen
idea ahoo oo karana energy America
factorial karana if the Quran is recited
on you Mohammed just listen we're gonna
pour it into your heart so from this we
really take an understanding which is
this Quran is from Allah
even if Muhammad sallallahu said have I
tried to change the Quran a letter a lot
told us that he's gonna destroy him
erase or - Salam well in about akka will
hardly I mean who Billy I mean to
Malacca bottom Malik Appa and I mean
Hulu a team if Muhammad SAW Allah Allahu
Salima
he tried to say something about half
worried one letter a loss from Hanoi to
Allah he says la copa and min will with
him destroy Mahan who harm him for try
for trying to add or subtract from the
Quran Allah delicate was narrated from
America Bob and they didn't know 13 that
they said al Quran are too soon
Netanyahu Doha hero and a wali Farah who
come out limit remember bands even with
everything both said that the Quran is a
Sunnah taken one the early passes on to
the one that comes after he went from a
larger Prophet Muhammad and now you're
very similar to their companions the
companions and they administer because
both saying who read the Quran come a
limb - moo-hoo the way you was talk to
you and it's showing us that the Quran
is an a clue
its submission transmission sorry it's
what it's transmission it's passed on
it's not I like
this way so I'm gonna read it that way
I've did I've misread you know his
famous statement it tell you well I tell
you if a cat who fetal follow do not
innovate in a recitation of the Quran
he's been suffice also I didn't every
Italian said something very powerful he
said in a rasoolallah romantic Rahul
Khurana your Prophet Muhammad is
commanding you to read the Quran come
out a limit to the way it was taught in
lingerie and I'm revealing I'm not Danny
rahimullah I'm Danny and he's furious
Jesse's both of whom are said to be
images that is called mohaka
of this field I'm using his Karen's
considered to be a Phrygia in the file
statements are considered to be a proof
in the science done
he's a desert or Dinah and as we call it
a milkshake holy slamming in in the
science of Islam emerges early is the
shake holy some of these science around
the 8th century man and I'm gonna
Danny's a scholar in which an imam was
shot the Veera him Allah he basically
done then another mom he's kicked up at
a seat so he need another of two of
these books now that he made a poet
poetic form of his garage book a shout
to me as a key table called Immanuel
which we can occur karate Sarah which he
took from the authorities here of Ali
Mahmoud any where the same two
individuals are heavyweight authorities
in this field of preservation and
recitation yeah and Abu Bakr back in
Rani who also wrote in that booth I
think you saw and Asha re just to the
reason why I mention it is because it's
to show you
this issue has nothing to do with a
particular group it's actually it's it's
an idea and it's also a belief agreed
and it's all over
so this issue touches this issue that
I'm mentioning that the Quran is not
preserved it touches anybody who is a
Muslim who believes in Allah and the day
of judgement whether you're a Hanafy or
share freely or maliki whether you're a
whether you are any other group in Islam
yeah I mean other than America zerah
yeah but I this concept there there's a
discussion with them some issues even as
preservation of the Quran there's
discussion with them on some issues we
shouldn't generalize the old for them
but ala kulli mama shout to me you rahim
allah in his own emmanuel what return he
said something very powerful he said why
morality are sinful cara a timid Harun
fat noon eternity here Lavar Mitaka Fela
he says that in the Quran art there is
nothing which is HT hat is no
independent reasoning in karate and it's
all taken from the prophet and Allah and
it's from the Mutara it's before you get
a because this might get a lot of people
not listening here I just wanna make
sure that right so beginning what you
were showing was that there's the
impossibility the in conceivability that
the Muslim could say something other
than that which Allah had transmitted to
him based on the quranic text and then
you showed okay so the Companions their
understanding was that there's no way
that they could recite okay something or
transmit this you to transmit something
as pour on yeah which is other than that
which the Prophet transmitted to them
Ali thought to Sonya with me so far now
you on the stage where you're trying to
show that the authorities the Islamic
authorities were also of the same
opinion so you've mentioned in Missouri
and I'm about with Danny that's that's
where you're right okay and
this concept of the Quran being
preserved is something a lot of promised
us that he's going to take it upon
himself to protect the Quran Allah says
in the Quran in an eternity clock well
in that Allah hath alone and this is
that this distinct unique thing Allah
gave to Omar - Omar to Muhammad over the
other nations the other previous nations
Allah khabar català he tells us that
there were losses from Hannah to Allah
what a robbery you know well about be
masterful o makki table in Iraq an array
Shahada and in the previous nations
their rabbis and the amongst it was a
responsibility on them to protect their
books and he never told take care of
your book and what did they do the
Christians in the Jews
what did they do you have a phone and
tell him I am elderly it started to
tamper around with it and change it in
order in accordance to their own whims
and desires as for only to Muhammad
Allah as they were Delaware did he do he
said that I am the one who was going to
take it upon myself to protect it Allah
has some hono akari is protected it from
that time till now how am i sorry Ursula
our messenger ali salat wa salam the
people he came to with the quran they
questioned the Quran and they doubted
the Quran from the messenger alia salat
wa salam
but with that said the Prophet was still
commanded to convey the message first a
lot I told this matter first da Bao
Marable re mushrikeen Muhammad go
forward convey your message and ignore
the apologists and the Christian the
disbelievers ignore them and he you've
got the truth with you
these people have a preconceived notion
they haven't belief if you come with
anything they're not we need to take it
that's what I'm not told of the Prophet
sometimes becomes that and they wouldn't
take the message salam ala a DIN with
cinema and i lost about a collector ala
he said to him well in kanikapila area
home for in stop and her battalion f
uckin feel or do suleiman fisherman
faculty on B ayah voila Khadija Robles
unlike America to Allah he says well you
can a couple Erica our album if these
peoples turning away from Islam has
become heavy on you Muhammad in China
Cobra album in Stata and temporarily
another config are the old cinema Fisher
my effect at Giambi aya if you want to
have me to take a ladder to go up to the
sky and to bring them the guidance but
you won't do so leave it to us we're the
ones that were gonna guide who we want
and we're gonna leave the one we weren't
misguided what I'm trying to get from
there is so what I'm trying to get from
there is that there are always going to
be people who are going to question the
authority of the Quran and whether the
Quran is preserved
we cannot convince every single body
because of the nature of some people
it's not me play devil's advocate for a
while and since you want to
I mean clearly now and one of the
arguments that Muslims use with
non-muslims for the truth of Islam and
for the truth on the prophethood of
Muhammad is if not one of the main
arguments is that we have it preserved
book whereas the Christians and Jews
their traditions have not been preserved
that the Old Testament is not preserved
that the New Testament is not preserved
so the first question is how you've kind
of gone about showing us the Quran how
it's that the Prophet couldn't have
taken it from said something from
himself that arm that the Sahaba
couldn't have said something from their
own selves now the question how would
you go about explaining why there are
differences in some readings because
someone could argue okay that's fine but
there's a lot of variance you know you
have some variant readings like Melek
and Melek you have these variants like
you can be born actually born December 2
the way yellow all of these are variant
readings which actually do have an
impact on the the meaning so if it's
meant to be one text which is
unchangeable and how comes we have these
variants beautiful now we go to an issue
called the there art of the Quran we
have
the very different types of recitation
of the Quran
you see these clear art that we have
today as I said it's the Quran that we
have the most prominent of those clear
art is the seven that I mentioned
Alabama shout to be collected in his
kitab heads with a mani or what retain
the seven I mentioned when he said when
he said as a law bill hierarchy and
imitate Lennon a colossal Sarah Furman
who do Rho sub attend katawa Sadat
Samaria well at least over local mela
he's only 17 and then he goes to each
and every one of those seven the
scholars in his lab all unanimously
agree that these seven are taken from
nebula in Mohammed who took from debris
from Allah Azza WA Jalla I'm gonna
quickly go through the name before
before we continue what you're saying is
that all of the variant readings all of
the very readings within the Islamic
tradition within the Quran it's not
something which is additional to the
text but is explained through the
Prophet Muhammad SAW sermons interaction
with a line you're gonna tell us what
the 77 actual okay so now we have a
discussion of some ask and they put
forward regarding the issue of you know
the Allah Hafiz Sabah I'm going to try
to simplify a long ongoing you're the
expert you taught me what's the best
translation may be modes I don't know
seven it's probably best to keep as is
yeah I like I like to leave it as it is
and in explaining for people now let me
explain let me explain something
the the the 7f and it's a clear left
amongst the scholars what is actually
meant by let me actually go through the
hadith of the pasta madre cinema where
he it's all about he speaks about some
other the seventh the professor larry
Salima he said in a hadith unzila for
the Quran
sent down in seven hours Kulu her chef
in Katherine all of them are what
sufficient and all of them are enough
I'm either sufficing and enough and
curing good in another rewire when the
professor Larry said I'm an argument
happened between Hisham you know Hakim
and Mahabharata on who the Prophet Allah
really mean he told both of them in the
huddle Quran in surah al-ahzab a roofing
estimate is salami no I want to mention
a benefit here but even not though the
sub the sub roof was motivated from the
messenger re salat WA Salam
Ramar didn't know one and Hisham didn't
know one which the scholars take from
the Ottawa Toluca Diablo Coleman do
Nicole mean important something could be
motivated in one land and not in another
land
does this debunks on this story here
just to kind of I think it's a very
important story just to kind of break it
down so what you're saying is that our
local table was praying and and Shimon
Hakim was praying and the reciting Susan
for pond and a bomb in this generation
any girl from room here
it was listening to show saying some
things which are slightly different from
what he had been taught to her and so
wanted to cease Sharon happy me want to
grab him you know because of he thought
that he was distorting the Quran or
something like this after the prayer
finished he took him to perform Salah
solemn and then he said he said you read
you read your way of reciting surah
Furqan chapter 25 of Quran so he read it
and then he said you read and then he
read it right and then the Prophet he
affirmed that both of them are correct
readings they're they're both true
readings they're both something which
was revealed together Nazareth or Xena
yeah so this is the way kind of came
down like this and so what you're saying
here just so sorry if correct me from
wrong is you're saying the Quran
omission
has a multi formal basis in other words
there are some words not all words the
storyline will remain the same the
narrative will remain the same
well there are some select words which
will be revealed in slightly varied
meanings and that's not despite the text
that's because of the masala making
director to Allah and then the it
subsequently Allah revealing certain
words in varied ways but if you would
say they all point in the same direction
and they're all from and one either
complement wise this is this what yeah
correct correct correct yeah so they all
complement one another and by the way
this topic of a lot of the Saba it's not
a topic I can really talk about in
details you know in this podcast because
I'm just gonna mention I'll a severely
come teeny little house from it's gonna
give some examples of the scholars
who've written books early mammal
related customers salon who died here
224 he Julia here's the key table on the
surface Abba if you put a button Allah
is a key tab on it I will father Lord
Ozzy has a key carbonic mohammed el
Makdessi
has a kick up on it jay-z has a kick up
on Sheikh Mohammed behead theory has a
key table on it
the from the more a theory a dr
abdulaziz al khali who's analytically to
Quran and creamy German Lamia madina
munawwara
he's written a book on it and and has
only a demon writer and he we're talking
about thousands of pages recording this
whole discussion are you saying this is
no secret this is not something we're
trying to hide all that
I'm not not to mention
scholars have mentioned when they came
to this hadith if they didn't understand
it properly and if they didn't know what
it meant they didn't lie and say well
this is what it means for example any
mammal just earlier him Allah he said
when I was able to study Callahan hadith
oh well you see here another I mean
they even with the Athena Senna had a
factor Halawa Aria be my um Catania
Kunis Robin Sharma and he pondered over
the hadith he tried to understand it and
he brought out the definition and the
meaning for it
Irie man even really rahim allah
Michelle Kennedy mom Geraldine astutely
he mentioned 40 views in regards to what
it means what I want to say is that
these views these views are divided into
two now and in the reviews regarding a
lot of this table are are categorized
into two the first view is this small
area tend to be views that we don't give
any consideration to judoka Adam its
presence is like its absence
you see yeah the second one is Allah
Allah is your to be here we give it
weight and we say it has the needful
Joomla generally has evidences or super
super to Delhi they believe kind of
points that direct continue hey just to
kind of once again consolidate food
because a lot of viewers just want some
reason and because this is something
that my experience they are they've
asked for what you're saying is that yes
in regards to the apples which are the
different ways we said slightly
different ways in which some places on
the person is manifests in the text what
that exactly means this specific notion
is something that there is disagreement
upon among the scholars that we don't
hide that disagreement there is this
agree but what a chunk of that
disagreement is not connected to the
actual evidences and it's just guesswork
from non-specialists so it shouldn't be
seen as I counted as among the 40 you
know prominent opinions is that what
you're saying sorry let me give an
example of something that I tend to find
with ATS sometimes when we talk about
issue of voodoo the shuttle the
existence of evil sometimes you see some
of the most we mentioned the existence
of evil or evil being there and then
they they jump to the existence of God
from evil being there to the existence
of God Danny if hypothetically I say
there is only evil there is no good on
this earth everything is evil that does
not in any way shape or form
conclude to the issue of
God exists or not the connection is far
yeah Nina what I say is the definition
of the arrow facade ah ha and what the
scholars the forty views and Malakar is
making it a be one extra view making it
41 views whichever of those views you
take however weak that view is it
doesn't in any way shape or form have
any effect on the preservation of the
poor on right
so what you're saying of those views
whatever view you have on what the house
is it I'm gonna make and if it's not
gonna have an impact
it's not gonna have an impact on the
fact that the Quran is itself preserved
so hey so this is of opinion is doesn't
there's not much at stake here with this
difference of opinion is well it's not
true there isn't so a lot of the times
people generally start to think oh
because it's not known what it means
whichever view I take in my effect me
believing the Quran is preserved or not
and to be honest I actually received the
email from someone who actually did say
that to me or even ask me that question
so after explaining that to them and
giving them a bit more details which is
shallower I want to say that I'm not
trying to avoid answering this question
of what a lot officer I means and which
view is strongest but it's a it requires
a more detailed session a course in
Charlotte era I'm going to be doing a
memory inshallah where I'm gonna bring
all of the forty-something views I'm
gonna present each view and what their
argument is and what the evidence that
they used and then if someone I'm going
to show why this view was critiqued why
this critique view was critiqued and
insha'Allah Allah then come to a
conclusion which we believe to be the
closest to that being right in Xiamen I
just want to name some scholars who all
said that the Quran preservation is by
itamar and it there's no difference of
opinion if I can just quickly name those
scholars so but we've I think we can
move on from the issue of Allah the fact
that the issue that let's just do a
quick summary once again on this
so to summarize and once
you know anything just let me know
anything you're saying yeah he made the
act to a loss of hano time that the
Quran is revealed in some slightly
different ways to facilitate a see at
ease for the people that was done and
then the Quran was revealed an offensive
and yeah in 7f which the scholars
disagreed the meaning of we can't say
okay this one opinion in Islam and
everything is however there is this
disagreement but that disagreement
there's nothing at stake with it because
what we're talking about is the type of
difference between the variations we
don't know exactly what the type of
difference is but we do know there's
some kind of variation like if you look
at the kilowatt you see that there's
some kind of variation the exact
categorization and specific notion of
what that categorization is or that that
variation is is not something scholars
have United upon and therefore ever
opinion you take for am under forty
opinions so cooled opinions which I mean
you agree that what most of them are not
about a Muslim not to the MS Ella and
even if you take the weakest of those
fourteen there were no weaken the
weakest one the the one that has the
most implications and consequences
really it's inconsequential because it's
not going to affect the fact that the
Quran is transmitted in the way you've
described the being in the show is to to
to the table and chose transmitted form
they went with its preservation a last
altima entrusted what they transmitted
everything the way they heard it and so
there's nothing at stake with that and
one more thing I think is very important
to our outline with that for for someone
for anyone from it is that there's a big
misconception you know in some of the
comparative religious work I do we speak
to Christians and Jews whatever it is
yeah and we say look our book is
protected and it's preserved and yours
clearly isn't and when we then ask to
show why is it that your book is not
protect protectors and ours is things we
definitely put forward not know what is
the change of transmission so we put
forward the fact as you've mentioned
that there is
people a multiplicity of people and on
the top-level transmitting that evidence
that same Quran the same message to the
next generation and it keeps going like
that but there's a chain of narration
whereas with the Old Testament in the
New Testament there's no chain of
narration such notion doesn't exist and
the second we say is that a lot of you
know apologists and Muslim still I don't
that just just add another point which
is that any man has a Muhammad - kitab
and Fissel familiar film it went away
when had he mentioned that this concept
overly snide and chaining is the house
is house to Muhammad this is a big thing
that we have so much to be said
umma to be snug hmm did Erica some of
the Imam or do they used to say Lola is
now doula column and share I'm Asha and
it's not immunity or all at least not
dual apartment sure I'm Asha that is not
is the religion and without it you need
a chain and if without it anybody would
have claimed what they want it now so
that's the first thing and so and the
second thing is this that the variants
that exist within the Quranic discourse
they exist because of Sabah they
explained the variants in fact there was
no hope of Sabah and the assumption was
there is a fixed text that I should read
in one way and then there was variants
that were found that would be
problematic but in fact thing is the
fact that Sabah are in there that is an
explanatory mechanism to show why in
fact this variation between a Quran R&B
of Clara and so on and so it all goes
back to the professor whether you read
at malakoma Dean the day of judgment or
Medicare would be in the king of the Day
of Judgment both of that goes back to
approve Mohammed Buddha is legitimized
but as the backing of the Quran the
backing of Allah the backing of the
Prophet yeah
and so if if if this is a very important
thing from comparative religion
perspective the assumption with the four
Gospels is that it's a fixed text that
this mission that's the same where is
the Assumption with the Quranic
discourse is that it's not a fixed text
it's a functional text it has multi
different multi-variant text and has
different kinds of variants in each word
you know so in so therefore if the
assumption was the same then the
standard could be the same of
measurement so if we find variants for
the Bible it's not the same finding
variants for the parameter I think there
is no commands explained through this
about of a server whereas in the Bible
baba equivalent went in so I think it's
very important that because it's not
like for like here is what we try to
communicate the fact that the profiles
are Salim he authenticated and
authorized legitimize the the charata
of sham hacking and also a new hot tub
and he said both of them was revealed
like that hadith he actually asked Allah
to facilitate ease for the Ummah by
revealing certain words in certain
different ways that is in fact already
telling us that this these systems are
different so now just to just to kind of
survive instead of being a problem for
us there's a solution because in fact
with the Bible it's a fixed text and you
have variants so how can you explain
that us it's not a fixed text however
having said that even though it's not a
fixed text it all goes in one direction
so I think it's very important that we
outlined the fact that even those
variants are slack saying blue and dark
blue is going in the same exact
direction it's not like is narrative
altering direction yep
and so that's that's an important thing
the third thing I want to say is that on
all right we call text criticism
perspective like the biblical dispose
there's no harmonizing method which is
very important gigantic text criticism
when they say the Bible in there saying
okay what verse should we put in what
verse should we're not going they don't
have for us we have the seventh circle
mobile or something is dying it's not
gonna be ready no such thing they have
to have any harmonizing method it's
Russian equivalent so we have a
consonant
skeleton which is not many
and then the the text many texts and
they don't have that so it's a poor so
far that we're saying that these are the
differences between our tradition and
their tradition it's not it's not a lot
for like comparison so when they say
well you got variance as well say well
we play not very said okay for that well
how do you explain your variance that's
important
I think closes the door now add to it
another thing I think that's generally
detached from the discussion as well is
that the nature of these people was
Kadir to him these people not just they
were memorizes they memorized poetry by
hearing it once
honey every one place would come to the
car bar and stand and read his mana card
okay fair enough comedic raha beeping
woman dealing basically Robin yeah and
he would read it from memory and people
would memorize it and they will transmit
that to each other this book so I really
apologize
well this man could also be seen in some
of his works he's actually he's got this
one the scribes are the profile he's
also got another one of preservation so
they can I mentioned in the Quran and I
had to be in at Rufus who do the lady
Naruto lady and in the Quran is I mean
it's something that's in the chest so
memory memorization from the beginning
of an Islam it was something I was
getting given a lot of consideration to
I want to bring to the people's
attention it's not just even the issue
is nad and transmission I said if you
add the issue of memorization and the
issue of number and it's not just you
know and the process of transmitting
this information or transmitting this
recitation he's actually passing it to a
large quantity of people yes on Ilario
cinnamon
there's a large quantity of people were
transmitted I wanna remember Hardy
narrated in his sorry I mean I have
eaten our best and enemies saliva so
hard I feel my body mean el-medina to a
Chaba to LFE
Danny the postal on my left in Roma Bahn
from Medina and there was only 10,000
people with and that's not all of his
companions he just wanted to leave
Medina
with his companions and 10,000 people
followed him so la la la with cinema now
you can imagine these 10,000 people
they're gonna pray with him mother
Asia and Federer and I specifically
mentioned three Sorrell three solos
another one yeah loud and so the process
Aaron was known to recite for example
somewhat on Monday he was recite 60
verse ezel I mean I'm sort of long
swords but lead McRib very long and so
they hear the Quran from him early salat
wa salam and they memorize it from him
and this is doing 23 years 23 years very
I mean that's a quarter of a century
almost I mean people we have to really
consider that I mean 23 years
it's not like a day or two or a week or
a year that's a long time for people to
continuously being exposed to the same
material
now what's mind-boggling that really
took me is that I came across study for
the massacre last year couple years back
when I was reading it Terasaki it made
he mentioned something really took me
about a year to find this book that is
nice ankl deal yeah yeah so it's most
historic history history history book
yeah as I could I will cost him an even
has a cure he mentioned something very
powerful very powerful he said and I
will repay I will redo lie Muslim you
know Mike Shanin he said call le Abu
Darda of the allah and i will remain
muslim with new mission in he said that
i woulda said to him so this weight is
saying the companion abu durga commanded
me to do something you know what he told
him to do he said dude man you crawl in
there and count the students who are
present who are listening to my Quran
I'm teaching them about the blessings so
I will remain Muslim even a mix I mean
he said I stood up to count the students
of Abu Darda who had taken the Quran
from him I mean he said I counted and I
reached for a debt to elfin was it to me
at Lee when a even 1600 and something
hmmm let's just say 1,600 you know who
was in that gathering even where I am it
mm whoosh am one of the Kirara
somehow we take he was sitting in that
gathering taking the Quran from him so
you have to understand that even though
I'm Emily said it it's not a Hadiya by
himself when you look at it
he's got 1599 students are taking the
quran with him
this is a really good piece of
information and at this point well I
think we need to clarify is the
difference between a pillar and a half
so the cotton asana or lash the ten or
seven pierot are different by consensus
to the do you know why people actually
do that mistake and they actually
confuse the two
you know why that even
action of making it into seven was where
the issue came from me if if he did what
a bloke a local goon did local goon made
it eight if it just made it eight or so
on or six people will not confused it so
this is really important now because I
think a lot of people have this
misconception the pirata why is it this
is a very important question because
people are completely confused on this
one why is the Koran different from the
half now let me give you my short answer
and can you expand on it and correct if
it needs to crush direction the short
answer is because the caller who is the
reciter whether a seven or ten or twenty
or a thousand it doesn't matter how many
there are is simply listening to the tab
on his teacher
and he's listening to how he's reciting
the Quran he might have listened to it
for more than one share and he's
choosing the clutter is choosing I the
animal caught it is choosing either I'm
gonna put Malik Oh Malik I'm gonna
recite because you cannot recite in two
different ways you can only recite one
way one time so you think okay so there
is a choice that is made by the product
the cauda is choosing to either recite
Malik or which means owner or King Malik
it's the are you caught it now this
choice is limited to the available
options all of which have been
legitimized by prefer male Salah all of
which are motivated as well and all of
which are motivated which have a perfect
salad of multiple multiplicity of people
a plethora of individuals at each stage
so he's making a choice yes the caller
is making a choice I'm gonna say either
medical you can't say mannequin
mannequin the same time in the prayer
he's choosing either got to say Manik
which means oh now I'm gonna say King
and that choice that he's making is
limited by the available options this
example of Malik Malik of the 10th color
as that Eden Jerry mentioned in his
nature and you know six of them recites
her as manic as King and four of them
recites as Malik so in that of 10 P over
they had a decision to make I don't
gonna recite asthmatic which is legit oh
we're gonna recite says Malik which is
also legit four of them made one
decision to recite as owner and six made
another site as king but both of those
and a complementary country distinct
tree so they don't contradict each other
and they both have elite the prophetic
backing they are both masculine and
authorized the stunt will prove our
Messiah and able to at this current
motivator so that therefore the
difference between the card or Clara and
the house is that the caller is choosing
the the very legitimate variant he's
choosing which variant to go in there is
a choice to be made now we can't make a
choice like the parameter because
it's already been standardized and folk
has been the formula has been laid and
this is round korat they've been left so
many times but in in theory I mean if
some in theory if someone wanted to mix
the Korat and they pray in their own
homes
I read in him Jesse he said this fine I
mean it's not it's not fit is another
Messiah idea because someone will say
okay why not mix but it's not a problem
exactly it's not an issue for us that
the point what I'm making is that all of
it is Quran all of it legitimate all of
it goes back to performances and all of
it is authentic yes there was a decision
that the caller had to make but it was
limited by the available options
therefore the available healthy options
they were there and the collet St Ankara
it shows something which was and limited
and had would you act for the chorus I
wanted to read manikins summit is a
system of care and if tiara let me
mention some of the Imams who mentioned
the preservation of the Quran to be
motivated remember Noah will rahamallah
any mama was serrated no loopy I
remember Dean and movie and ye you I
would Hassan a new reuse of ARCA see you
I'm a sifaka see you an imam abu bakr
IBN arabi a romantic e UD any blue
taenia
I remember Tina circa she had you Dina
Suki whether you Dina was rocky even a
middle tele-dentistry ot she had
with Dean Armadale Banda and Imam even
hasn't in
remember haramein about my linguine I
would worry diminution reject a theory
denied na Hyun Jung Cedeno Jerry and I
were best al Lewis Alwyn Shari see these
Imams all have said once they look at
the Quran they said that this is motor
water maybe a manatee
yeah to be fair in our transmission
Marine Mammal Jerry needs a discussion
the cola very much a jury has to
makalah the one he says indeed umma
Korean and the one he says in his
national but as I shall Allah promised
that in my host that I will be doing I
will shallow lob tackling yes
I think this point of the two questions
we asked one question is hell eh Danny
pool and ketamine in the second car who
is in order for Katya here does and the
other question is is there a motivator
these questions are not the same for
example Han does it for karate be
correct and sound does it need to have
to watch it stopped
that's what Jesse was discussing some
say sugar I started to show however and
some say no but the question of is it
turbo to writer I have not seen he less
like some people say this is not enough
he does mention in his body but inertia
which is a poetry of his inertia he says
for hulu maracas watchin are we what
Colonel it was me Tim Allen are we
what's AHA is not and who al-quran oh
very Hitler to our Channel hi to my
gurukul HBT
to do the hula and know who FISA battle
so here was my snare then when he says
for example yes ah hi Schneider so this
mostella of the river from allah and
also abu sharma tell McGee see and their
collab inshallah
I really want to go in details regarding
it because I have a research on that
this is very important just to translate
what you say is probably the foremost
authority in the last thousand years
but let me let me just say something
sorry I'm sorry sorry to interrupt your
media story interrupting there's two
things in New Jersey rahim allah has in
his inertial ignore jazeera him hola
see how to mislead so how to listen add
that the robot are bobby'll in the
transmission yeah no 30 cities not and
the water reliable eccentric secure and
in his kitab and he mentions
schwa the image guitar which really
means as we very popular popular you
know in his mockery in he added another
condition which is Omaha's to accept it
with acceptance or something which wide
sprint why it's not it so it's team into
two things
had to be snack yeah sure
translate please so happiness that means
authentically transmitted yeah
the second thing is mentioned in surah
that is famous copy long and Kabul that
the Ummah are unanimously in agreement
regarding it
yeah iijima yeah so this is that is the
triangulating method because the
triangulating method that even Jerry
mentioned he was it has to be in like a
little structure of dr. anak script it
has that chain of narration which is
authentic and it also has to have be in
line with the Arabic language so with
the with the first high Arabic language
and these three conditions must be met
in order for it to be and that I which
is Nakamura ICT for it to be read in the
prayer and to be remove refer to as
Quran this look a lot of people know
because let me tell you let me play
those haven't come clean I think will be
bouncing from each other about so you
solve the things that people have been
saying someone says okay well fine
that's no problem what we've seen that
it must hold and even our best and obey
beam cab and the Sahaba
many of them yeah they have this is a
put the show ahead to you and this is
the kind of thing we'll hear from
missionaries and uneducated they'll
say look how could it be the case if
this is what the Quran is so the Quran
is that which corresponds with that
triangulating method then you have some
of the color art of it not best of them
it must although this person gather and
they differ in the consonant to
structure not just in Carrara may have
tamil who Russian what the what the
actual Continental structure can contain
but theyíve differ from the continental
skeletal structure from that which is
mention the Quran so how can you square
that circle a sense that you're saying
that whatever you're saying that the
Quran is a veracious you're saying it's
robust you're saying is transmitted and
is transmitted with all of these
authorities then how is it that you have
these operational texts of even much
older
which clearly are differentiated from
the continental skeletal structure on
Batman Achmed a script and let me add
extra thing on the Rizzo just to make it
even more make the issue even more
heavier on those people who say it life
example some add on to that and say look
I believe Miss Reed is the same guy that
the process rallies and I'm I said the
same so happy that the prophecy sets on
my Mario sorry man
anyone who wants to meet for an album
Bunny and Cameroon Zilpha rock karate
I mean karate even though I was the
foremost heavyweight you know yeah
especially just in authority but the
fact that the prophecy said anyone wants
to read the Quranic in the way comes
down the way it's the purity of the
Quran reading reading like a blood drive
miss route so somebody would like you're
telling me that some of his recitations
being eliminated absolutely let me break
the answer Allah Ta'ala into to them if
my aim and objective is not really to go
into this room has because they deserve
a entire course just two or three that
are very popular yeah Abdullah minimus
Buddhist when the processor has said
that he was referring to his
pronunciation is articulation of the
future to eat and the way he read it but
it wasn't referring to his I hope I'm at
the the the the the style of the Quran
he was reciting it was Todd Reed and his
mihari that's what the Prophet was
referring to when he said if you want to
read the Quran the way he came down
because the Prophet only had a dragon is
written in a prayer and he didn't hear
his whole entire him pray and then he
looked listen to his voice and he was
amazed by it and then he said anyone who
wants to read the Quran the way he came
down and let me lay him read in the
rewire the Quran the way of Abdullah
numerous group the second part which is
the clear art of some of the Companions
like a dynamic Whitman he recited the
goal of Allah subhana WA Ta'ala
Shahani mutashabihat he returned yet he
added on to it
these are Clara
which was something it was from the
Prophet the Prophet assigned to be like
that but the most half of man it chose
this the reason why earth man's
objective was to compile the Quran was
not the goal of baka this is where many
people get confused
Abu Bakr was Mujahideen job is to bring
the whole Quran together
Larrick in verse man's reasoning of
bringing the Quran together was the
issue of the Gila that was told to him
people were preferring their readings
over there other people's readings and
which we're not saying that some were
right were wrong because remark and
Hisham be but a Hakim had a but they at
least had the Prophet with them many
thought the Prophet is telling who's
right from wrong but man was scared at
this yeah yeah but there might come a
time when there is there is no one who
has knowledge enough to know so this man
chose to resolve this whole situation by
bringing a most half that brings and
unites everyone onto this so every other
recitation that the sahabas had this was
the final conclusion this is the only
one that the OMA are unanimously in
agreement the sahabas all agreed upon it
even finally I believe me miss root took
this Ravi a long time
I know Danny as Authority but it man's
most awful era of derive enormous route
it was taken from the messenger Ali
salat wa salam it was a recitation i was
taken from it but it wasn't added to the
so you'll say why should we follow one
man has ordered anyway yeah when he
wrote the committee he gave it to
everybody and he became an agreement
amongst everybody that's number one
number two the prosperity sermon
commanded us he said are they can be
thrown at you as soon as you qualify
Rashi Dean already in I'm already having
alleged
so we were instructed to follow up with
morality alarm I just because the other
hadith says forty years isn't it
actually there will be 40 years and if
you add up
the four key levers is actually four
years that you know was a half and I'd
leave me one for four years and a half
and and so yeah I'm for ten years and
six months four years and a half are
easily months well that's all that's
four years so what you're saying is that
the Prophet gave us instruction to
follow the whole of Russia Dean and so
earth man's decision is religiously
authoritative and add to that in fact he
had the itch malbim as well
he had the edge mother's including in
the Mossad including all of these people
who had varied cars not to say that
their cars became invalid but it's to
say that this was the standard reading
that then transmitted it you could say
for convenience purposes it wasn't the
fact that even Mossad and Quran has now
become null and void because it's what
we can say that that I'm not a fan his
standardization his damage to the OMA
has agreed upon and we are sure that
whatever that is this Quran we are sure
yeah whereas the Senate could be
distorted the chain could be distorted
it's the Russian it's non-compliance
which means that could be go back to
some kind of it could be tough see it I
mean even even just he says I read this
in and in his flight was a mission that
actually Massoud a lot of the stuff is
very difficult to differentiate
sometimes between what actually saying
and reciting as Quran and ambassador and
so to avoid all of that confusion of man
a fan but I checked earlier King you
made sure that anything that goes into
this must have is gonna be that which is
the most authoritative
the most legitimate that everyone agrees
goes back to the Ramallah
not to say that all of the other
companions were wrong to aside the way
they did or to do the things they did
that's true and at the end of the day
what we as Muslims always have to
remember is the non-muslims because they
became they got exposed for their
religion and their script becoming you
know contradicting and not being
preserved they now want to point fingers
at other people
say oh you guys know one is not
preserved that's the truth
and I hamdulillah the fact that the
Muslims today see in Ramadan para we
have been read by a 14 year old 15 year
old 20 year old leaving Korea all over
the world people reading from memory and
this is I think enough to to show how
this book has been preserved - living
tradition is something which is
something just packed up in books and
and it's a very cliche when you say
they're gonna throw all the books in the
world how quickly will retrieve the
Quran compared to other ones well if I
would just to throw in a couple of who
had now not - it's causing it down to
people but just some of the most kind of
Wired worriedly circulating things
misconceptions that on this on this
mission so we talked about just to
summarize so far we talked about how
it's impossible for the Prophet to have
said something which is not from Allah
and how the Companions is impossible for
them to have said something which is not
from the Prophet and everything all the
variant readings go back to Prophet
Muhammad a solemn and are legitimized by
him I would the fact that everything
therefore from a light goes back to a
lost - idea I will said yeah we also
said that the misconception that's meant
to be a fixed text is one which has led
to a lot of confusion and what racism
all these are variants we know that
there are variants for those variants
playing through the act of the Saba that
of seven mode whatever is types of
reputation recitations which I mentioned
with specific verses where you can
recite this verse like this and I like
that it's a concession a serial Omar
something to ease and facilitate from
all my sorrow sighs some kind of thing
which helps some people the Muslim now
there is a difference we said between
the roof and the Quran we said that that
roof ah the types of differences and the
kurata
so it's possible that you can have a
thousand a million Cara it's not a
problem because all is is a combination
of choices made from the available pool
of differences which were all adjustment
math Ursula and mathematical you can
so many of those problem the point is
that all of those cars all of those
recitations are so here how authentic
and we will say matter which are mass
transmitted in addition to being in line
with the rasam of many the skeletal
Continental structure of the earth many
which there was each man on DOMA and
also the fact so this is this is the
narrative of putting food and this can't
be compared we said with with
Christianity when there's a fixed text
and variants and there's not even a
standard that there's no even
transmission I mean how can they how
could someone even compare that to you I
don't think even what's the studies
comparison I don't think anyone makes
that comparison even in Western
societies yeah even the third century in
Islam are only been once an hour and I
will read cosmic Salem and I were hard
to miss attorney and a medieval debater
goofy and oh god it's madness Huckle
Maliki you know would jar for it
material poverty and all it is until
them and said in the fourth century
scholars in Islam they Oh straight away
Danny Harun was an hour he died 200
before 200 so he documented other care
are at more than seven red cosmic serum
came after him with idat 224 Hadrian I
mean he took directly from our
even-handed Turkish Ally you see and he
compiled all the Quran so it was it
wasn't just memorized it was documented
at a very early stage any different or
ah their names who they took from it was
documented and if you actually go to Le
Monde and they're happy for example
remember Debbie you know him
a man with that we had 1000 teachers
even remember judge that he mentions
that 1000 in oral a man who taught him
we took knowledge from the Quran and
their science is he took from them and
he learned from them so and he has the
keto tautomer control Quran it talks
about the different recite if you go to
in a normal Jerry how many how many
Messiah he has and he took from them you
will see this issue is it's not one or
two or three or peaceful I know brother
right now he's got in 200 teachers they
to the whole Antrim me it has that is
now is alive so this issue of the press
the Quran Allah subhana WA Ta'ala took
it upon himself he is going to protect
it from Chanukah Allah cannot these
non-muslims and his orientalist and his
Christian apologist and all of them
cannot suffer at animal vu he aha
hello me about how oh ha karna who are
you if you're just gonna you're hanging
you're hitting your head against the
mountain don't be nice to the mountain
you're just gonna hurt your head that's
why this religion is going to stand you
know these people you have to understand
let alone feeling out of the weather
idea on fee sauna national hosting or
the well addict Rollo is a man they are
not mentioned in the sama in good and in
this world they have they have no
authority honey we Muslims I sincerely
say this to the Muslims who are
listening we've become foreigners from
our own religion and when we've become
foreigners and we've taken a step back
it leaves that vacuum for non-muslims to
come and start to tell you about your
religion I've told this story so many
times but when I was studying in the UK
I was studying at birtwick University I
was studying linguistics I used to go to
the British Library and I sometimes used
to take from there man you see yeah some
books and manuscripts slamming
manuscripts over there I state from I
was taken back when I went there one
time and I met a non-muslim guy and he
asked I came to the place and I was
looking for some of the most all tattoo
written by Suraj we didn't work any
sardine ok let's get up come on new room
I'm a Moroccan room and which is about
Oromo quran but i was looking for some
of some of his other works and other
scholars I was looking at for their
works i luckily had when I got there he
corrected me he said to me it's not so
loud you didn't pay me Radha is sahaja
demon bull failing was the first time I
ever heard it and in order Muslim you're
English UK dude telling you that this is
how it's pronounced and we had a back
and forth discussion and I was really
taken back that subhanAllah
you know we've distance ourselves from
learning the religion and also the Dean
so what I say is that
hematology the first thing that came
down in Islam the first telling me that
came down in Islam was it read it sweet
and he go and read and a lot about Allah
Allah
he praised us his humans I'm a raised as
humans based on that knowledge of
knowing adam alayhis-salam was risen
from all of the other creation for what
reason and they prostrated to him for
what reason well Anna aired MLS macula
there Allah towards him Subhan Allah Ya
Allah Allahu Lavina I mean come on
Ladino to until my daughter gets a lot
raises a person that when they learn and
they study so well I I look at the a
brother Xu hat of the non-muslims that
would Islam I sit down I actually try to
give them a chance ok when you have to
say and when you look at it there should
have oh honey bacon and commute now you
some you know what are you gonna enjoy
when you look at it and you really do in
another and you observe it you don't
find much to it but the only thing they
have is the ability to articulate it
properly which of previous articulation
isn't this mission against the mountain
yeah so it's nothing when you look at
it's nothing substantial that's that's
actually there there's an example I came
across some Hannah like yeah I was
having a discussion with one of the
non-muslims about the or on being going
against the Arabic language the fact
that it goes against Arabic language and
he brought the ayah for me carotid hums
it moves a yet I'm over here Eddie I
become enough see where he de Oaxaca
mean haha well best I mean who Mary
yellan Katina when he said what a lady I
wanna be he well Aloha is what we read
it like in hamza here is it as well or
her me as a customer right and these are
miss eligible American is elfia he talks
about it were all too confident and
Amelia coffee less similar ELISA and
Eliza much better
it not only one left Lisa must Ellen
know very well in grammar which I don't
wanna go in I'm gonna explain I shall
retire in my course honey
what
takes me back is that they would even
study a mess error in grammar just to
prove the Quran being wrong and but not
really understanding in deep and have a
very good understanding you know why
they don't have it because they don't
have a you know when you're studying
grandma you don't just rip a page out of
a book and say this is them you have to
read it from beginning to end and
understand how one of those science is
where you have to have a very deep
understanding from a local I'm will
often wore a cabin filled with water of
some with the rest it's more generally
managed from that beginning to the last
miss Ella is so connected it's building
apology on each other so I am Delina
Islam in sha Allah Allah
it's Scripture the Quran and the Sunnah
the Sun has been protected by its people
the Sunnah to Nibiru him turning away he
mechanical Wahine in America Riku Hari
Raya first acara lady Raya cehotina Maru
you are rasoi leader aluminum are due to
mimic buoy Nacional in the tamahagane
fittin well M see if can habit in every
student in the radical EEMA the Hitmen
tavini one ostrich uma from a Azusa hija
Harman Mustafa Muhammad Allah Brian
Burke when they told him that there's a
hadith which are mobile they said to
Alan Burdick
there's fabricated a hadith and then he
said yeah really shoulda held jihad on
the jet scholars are gonna live for that
you have Billa
the big beasts like a drama with Maddie
and Hamady be humble and it's happy
Rahu you abou hottie Molossia a boozer a
taraji an animal Buhari they they're
gonna live with ritual hell jacobina the
other day I was reading the life of
Abdullah of Mubarak and I came across a
line Barack saying Lola I'm certain if
it wasn't for five men rhetoric to tiara
I would have left and working and doing
mighty Jarrah and my training of my
business five men for their sake as I'm
working I want to provide for these five
men who are they
Sofia named an associate authorities of
Yerevan arena I work for them he pleased
to pay for them and it will layer and it
will submerge
I keep forgetting who the fifth one is
Annie these five I work for them or else
I would have left my job why does he
work for them he doesn't want them to
take no money from no government they're
free men they they sit in their house
they they work for them they get their
risk they don't worry about that and
they're able to defend a religion which
gives us the great incentives to do the
same thing with one of these brothers
and great causes that are doing all that
work and so yes to be honest but the
point is that he just wanted the related
to be defended by those great scholars
and and he shall Torana one thing I took
from Cheryl santini statement really
touched me he said in our other law in
hora de a common may you are you do for
your Haeckel hakka became a key to my
accord of a bill hakka all about that if
I had modified Ahuja's I shall Allah
make his religion Stanton Omar developer
to other wants this religion to prevail
he actually sometimes does it in a way
where he brings somebody who speaks
against the religion you see wrong
things about the religion and then
through ducks Allah makes a person stand
up and we feed him and debunk his
argument and that's beautiful and I
think it's a beautiful place to stop
this this podcast but I tell you
something it's for those who are really
sincere and we've heard you present all
of those evidences and break it down
there's nothing to hide nothing in a
scholarly works that we're trying to
keep hidden away there's nothing that
there's no great secret anywhere
and everyone's works are available
everything is more time nowadays nothing
can be hidden and the truth is also what
I the truth is also available and this
is something we call non-muslims that
are listening to this to the truth of
Islam the hack of Islam which is to
believe in Leila had Allah Muhammad
Allah soon the Quran the final message
to him a message to mankind to believe
that this is the unaltered speech the
wine verbatim speech of Allah
subhanAllah Anna which has been
preserved by the - in a way that no book
in the medieval period or a book in
antiquity a notebook and ancient history
has ever been preserved you know
the book is continually moving now it's
it's an armistice in our hearts it's in
our tongues as you said in our prayers
quite literally in our prayers
so it's you know I was funny I just like
go back to your articulation trying to
attack this it's like smashing your head
against a mountain that's true you know
what happened I was reading in the ayah
in surah surah to mérida where losses
what's adequate article 2 fact or idea
my desert be Mahadevan Academy namah
well no as usual Hakim the American
right he said I recited this ayah when I
recited the ayah he said I recited it as
at the ending of the Iowa over for him
and a Bedouin man said repeat that again
and I repeated it and he said Koran
woman who speeches this and then he said
it's the speech of Allah and the medical
new arrival is a loss Mary the great
Imam load away then he said to him whose
speech is this and he said it's Allah he
said well I this is not speech of Allah
the Bedouin man said I've been medica
before I lost my a straightaway
understood that he did something wrong
he recited the ayah as well as his own
Hakim then he said that's correct then I
lost my research in a man do you finish
the Quran are you know the Quran the
Bedouin man said no no I don't know the
plan he said how do you know that it
wasn't well now before Rahim and then he
said the siak and the context doesn't
allow that granny why I mean is that if
the prophet sallallaahu ceramic aim with
the Quran and it was something that
didn't make sense to the Arabs at that
time they would have demolished a
prophet sallallaahu said they would have
insulted him they would have ridiculed
him but they realized what he came with
his new urges and after the prophets
Allah mala ali wa sallam had died
because they couldn't respond to it the
poet he said yeah and maybe you know
Bill I acted on Solomon which it can be
Hakeem in Roman sorry me I had to Kalama
Almeida I do that you begin wounded
America to endure the prophets before
the miracles they came with a died with
them and Moses Morocco died with him
the other prophets their miracles died
with them Risa's Miroku went with him
because it was not dead it went with him
but never like Muhammad's the only
prophet who is miracle is still standing
it's still amongst us we're looking at
it we're challenging people not on an
absent miracle like we're saying the
miracle is not here challenging if you
can so it's kind of for every shout out
I'll be preserved Allah is going to
preserve this religion
one last question I think we should go
back to the variants in leather you've
mentioned that reminded me of something
now before I end with you as a question
someone else okay so you've got all
these variants you've got the seven of
which are the ways in which the
multiform ways that we can explain the
variants it's not fixed text we
understand that now but how can we
assure this is the question how can we
assure that their variants were not the
product of the Sahaba themselves how can
we assure this all of the para all the
ruin or anybody who has dealt with the
firaon right how can you be sure that in
fact that those variants are not as a
result because the sheer number of them
they would argue even though frankly
it's not that as many they make out to
be how can you assure that those
variants are in fact not from from the
Sahara or from the what this thing
that's the this is where the issue goes
back to the concept of coatl the water
means the halo so automatically the
definition of tatl means these people
cannot agree on this is too large in
number and we're saying the processor
has 120,000 companions Janna yes the
field of 1200 that make all agree that
this is because there's a bigger one who
comes once to the cross cinema and then
he goes he never comes back again when
they all agreed upon it was the Bedouins
there as well and when he comes back and
he supposed to find a question just
supposed to find a question I think what
they would say is that or actually once
again pretty women push back you know is
that it was do something I look at him
at best they don't collage and how did
you know that that pillar I wasn't
something which they both of edom
generally speaking you won't find it
there are or I come across a tiara was
only gonna be a blemish with at all it's
gonna be other peoples that are but
these are the only people are gonna be
mentioned there's a difference between
who's mentioned and who stated because
right now
Abraham and Nahor it was against the
concept of saying Cara are too full and
he hated that because this problem came
from people saying the Quran is not
motivated because they say I'm gonna be
no dude he's one person
this is the problem the paralyzed
attribution to one person doesn't mean
only one person ready like this yes I
cannot Betty daddy very good and and
secondarily so I would say here that's
number one number two is what I was
thinking about this interrogation I was
thinking about quite deeply and some
what you think of it you've got the head
of Russian let's take as an example the
ten Walter White's have come out that
everyone is agreed upon normally yeah
except for some of the so-called those
corrupts the lion's share like the vast
majority of meetings are exactly the
same so if you read cannot have some
awesome versus what some method just to
give to popular examples yeah then all
the storylines will be the same there'll
be no translational sense difference in
translation for 98% of the of the
content maybe 99% in fact where there is
a difference in translation will be in
things which are very similar like blue
and dark blue I don't know things which
are very very similar December to Taba
Yahoo oh there's a point is very
important to understand I'm not about
with a laser variety the balloon are
Quran awoken I mean in derailer you know
whether to feel in a fantasy era he
laughs here means this ski rocks two
times you're very well aware
if they laugh telework a nifty refer
come on if the a laugh the differences
can be brought together that's not the
discussion here
we've never cleaned that we've claimed
there's no contradiction you guys have
to prove to us that the Quran
contradicts itself if there's a manner
here and there's a man is the idea in
the other kurata Wesley hmm
what shall I try again inshallah in mind
mr. Murray of course I'm going to expand
on some of the where it is mentioned in
the Quran like for example taratata
Helen her aunt in Thailand huh there's a
Giada yeah this Giada one of the
benefits in it is that I get 20 reward
by reading the Quran Arthur says Mita
Ilana by the mimin the noon and the
Quran that doesn't have it has less
because of the famous hadith there are
good Alif Lam Meem - when I can elephant
heart phone when I'm gonna have some
women heart phone so totally tan and her
whoever reads it and the one who reads
it as Jerry me tacky Alana the one who
reads it as mintage Alana is got 20
extra more than you do one of the
benefits that you get from the Korat and
I thought about so just to happiness as
a means of as a means of the demolishing
this idea in fact yeah is if you find if
you look at some of the construction
some of the lexical constructions like
for example Malik and Malik we said that
you can recite Medicare medic so in fact
I like this Malik is king
sorry medic is on a manic is king right
while insulting Ernest is smelling
there's no different Quran if the Sahaba
were playing around as they wished and
they should have made that medical
miracles all right it's not just even
that if there are of Hisham and Hisham
when he recites Abraham and Ibrahim yes
the word Brahim in the come 99 times
yeah okay the largest times Vedas
Ibrahim feel anything and there's some
other religious Ibrahim why idea of I'm
gonna read it as I want even though I
was told
Akira of economy the Michel
if Muhammad was given
Karara and then he said I'm not gonna
read it like that and then they said him
but if somebody came to you and told you
I heard it from the Prophet he said I
would never take it from them he said
because at AHIMA we're free
I suspect one person but that Kira I was
actually motivated for someone other
email but to implore a marine because it
wasn't muta what he never reached him in
motivated he rejected it especially we
were talking about the concept of truce
in karate
this must Allah I really have prepared
for it
I have a long mashallah written research
on different scales and maybe ninety
like a team is gonna research in general
yeah when we come here inshallah this
week we got a release of the video
inshallah this week we're gonna release
it you know where you reset your
research isn't writing the right I've
actually it's nearly nearly 600 pages so
inshallah to Allah
some of you I have left in in UK I don't
have all of it and some I have it here
that I've added on to it so inshallah
once it's finished and I've got it all
written every time you find something
new to be honest every day you'll find
something new that you didn't see so I'm
just trying to add on to that someday I
shall do I be like taffy or Maha Badu
didn't either who has Fela shelter
myself so I'm just gonna hope from Allah
subhana WA Ta'ala that he aids me with
it and he allows me to be able to fully
do it in sha la donna again like
allocated for evening opportunity - sha
la ila humbly proved the Quran is
preservation and how it's that every
Muslim around the world has to be
inshallah to Allah happy and content
that their religion is being preserved
it's a great imam al Rahman island you
know the great amount of Hardy he was he
said about the previous image that came
before him he said rocky Mahalo ma'am
and he said latter he said ma'am he said
manejando FEMEN mother in
but clean fuel in R&D one man a new
female mother
what are we compared to those great
Imams that came before us like a
mushroom is like under a tree under a
tree yeah I mean when you look at him um
I'm I'm right Danny you look at shout
baby I was did you actually know I would
cost him a shot to me the size of a
manual to tanni it was actually said
cannibal abuse our own Andrew Scott
el-bahari I mean Heavy D he he was blind
you know that because he was blind
the students will come and they read
sahih bukhari and he's blind he sits
there and they correct their copies from
his memory
Danny they read on him and he said
that's copies wrong corrected are you
there
and so what I mean is that when you look
at these amounts the way they were the
way their life is and you look at these
Orientalists and what type of people
they are money it's not even fair it's
not fair in any way shape or form
to even mention I will cost him a shout
to me you in the context of you name any
Orientalist why I say is that the karate
is a science that comes from the knowing
the Arabic language and it Kadiatu ish
man for example Kadir to each man of the
Quran if numeric when he speaks about it
he and he says walk through I wish
Memphis he says works or I wish I wish I
wish MIM
fair as to Latino relearn I mean and
well done moon Jack a more alpha to me
in a narrow the issue of ish man and the
way that is read it's not something
that's known in Naju it's taken from
where it's taken from karate like they
they complement one another
so these oriental ease are not masters
in the Arabic language they are not less
to be an original lucu listener who
where I can easily peel okuru for abou
they are foreigners from the Arabic
language we Muslims have to have thicker
in our amounts like Ebru malik when hero
is l fear
even though he believes he's al feels
the best he's a column muhammadun who
abnormally qiyamah Dorabella Hiram
Maliki most ugly and our enemy in most
of our early in was tuck Molina sharafa
why stir in Allah feel fear Mikasa
dinner will be on Maria to carry will
AXA beloved in New Jersey what I was
told better be ready man Jesse
what acted on be ready shortly at n L
theater tomorrow t wahoo
we supped inhabitant of Lyra was told
you internet l Jamila my key tab is
better than the L fear of abnormality
he's saying that but even what is better
better than me because he came before me
I'm taking from him I honor him because
if he's a self to me and I miss her
shoes the love he has for his scholars
that Canadian a gentleman by being a
coruña rabbinical era when I mean and
Adina Saba could have been a man shelter
business since remarried judge Allah who
built hierarchy and imagine Lenin a
cologne or Anna as Ben Massell Sarah may
Allah reward the great scholars who
transmitted ease or unfroze for us so
it's not a time where we doubt our
events and we question them and we put
them down over Oahu and non-muslim an
Orientalist who doesn't know much about
the religion and even if we gave him the
chance to hear him out doesn't have much
to be found alone their works and all of
them are very I mean none of them are
the same very some of them like a firm
the the research should correct
themselves
I mean mentioning names now
nikolai sinai he done a great job in
dispelling the myths of fool Casanova
became before him he said that the Quran
came in the eighth century and he said
no this is not correct in a thematic
recession seventh centuries actually or
the Islamic narrative is correct they
and he corrected the other orientalist
because of sonar manuscripts and the
palimpsest and all these things and my
father radio cover accuracy and all that
stuff so to be fair it's kind of like
okay a lot more incidents 100 years ago
you said X and now you're saying why
you've come to the Islamic narrative
after a hundred years of toil
we've only been saying this for a
thousand four hundred years and the
thing is because to be honest with the
other side like I'll be honest Quranic
studies in the West is not a massive
field
there's not like thousands of people
involved they're probably the big names
that's not just the in in the it's not
just in the West's like if you look at
an anon Sarkozy in his kitab boron when
he spoke about for example to Syria he
said it's in moon let me on Goodwin I'm
your hot Eric it's like a science that
hasn't been nurtured and it hasn't even
reap you haven't been read yet
so even if you look at the early
scholars they kind of alleged that lumen
Quran is a side that hasn't been fully
given like a lot have to say is that
maybe because now the thing we have to
do with in academia is the new
manuscripts and radiocarbon dating
things which did not existed on set up
we still have to combat it within the
sphere we have to refute them but no we
have to refute them and of course could
have to hide a comb is for everybody
anyone who'd had to go to Saudi Muslim
being evidence is forward but example I
was trying to study the kita I feel at
Treblinka site by Ali men shot together
home a lot and I struggle to fight
anyone who can actually go through with
me this cab and explain to me this key
table indeed and it was table is an
awesome oh sorry yeah I mean I struggled
to find it and it's not even a it's not
even a big like book is just small 200
something lines of poetry it's rare to
find today if you look at the people the
scholars who are grounded in normal
Quran and have understanding of it
that's why the Orientalist are going
direction they find it as a place where
they could
so what kind of open real specialist
especially in that let's be frank in the
Western down not any one who can say oh
this is the guy we can't we don't
actually have this is the have to say in
accordance to our knowledge with
everybody in the West so we say
according to our knowledge yeah I mean
we don't see a lot of people are at the
forefront when it comes to normal so
unless I must leaving us a little bit
open so we have to be open about that
and say you know your is true and the
Orientalists we can't wait for number
ten years before they get strong enough
to be able to to deal with us
some knowledge which reduces the more
that they don't start saying more things
issue when in Charlotte either as I said
at the land buttocks said sorry so your
ritual diameter we always think higher
of this on man they're always going to
be people who are going to stand up for
the deal and that's gonna revive the
religion for the people there's always
going to be people in Charlotte that's
mean sure you always welcome to come and
I think many people would have really
benefited from this exposition and again
for having me there's a lot of things
that I felt I wanted to speak about but
I left it because of it not been the
most sensible place to speak about it
it's not my place I am going to go
through it all in great details the
Annabelle room being details
inshallah era for any student of
knowledge whether even if they have a
ulterior motive they have you know their
belief and they don't wanna if you're
looking for something to to use even
watch it I will present you the
arguments for us inshallah I like the
YouTube in Charlotte Anna is the
madrasah to Maria
YouTube channel in Charlotte it's gonna
be there it's free you don't have to pay
a penny in Charlotte Anna
no shadow la la la la I started oka what
a two-wheeler